In this video, we need to do a little bit of layout,
both visually, in terms of what the overall layout
of what our application is going to look like,
as well as, like, a architecture for something
that's a little bit higher than these pages.
So let me explain, kind of,
what the problem is that we have right now.
We've got this index.js, and we've got this cell.js.
These are sort of as high as you can go
in the component tree, in our React application right now,
and that's not too much of an issue,
but there becomes a bit of a problem when
what happens when you wanna share data between pages?
Like, you're going from index to cell.
What's the parent of both of these pages?
Where would I put my state, right?
So, Next.js, by default, actually wraps
your entire application in what's called an app component,
and that's great, because you can get up and running,
really quickly, and it will give you its own app component.
However, sometimes you want to do custom.
You want to have, like, a custom wrapper component
around all of the pages, and that's where
we get into running a custom app,
and it says it perfectly, here.
It's good for persisting layout between pages,
it's good for keeping state when navigating pages,
so the fact that I can add something to my cart, right here,
and I can open my cart, and then I can go to another page,
and the fact that the cart is still open
and it knows what's in my cart,
that's persisting state between pages,
and that's exactly what we're gonna do
with our Apollo store.
So in order to do this, you create a custom app.
The name of the file is going to be underscore app.js,
and then, inside of here, what we do is we
import the app component and the container component,
which is exported from next forward slash app.
We're actually gonna be coming back to this
and significantly coding it out,
once we get into making our Apollo store,
but let's do very basics, right now.
So, we make a new React component,
that's going to wrap everything.
We'll call that MyAPP,
and that extends, not React.component,
but it extends the app component
that we imported from next/app, which is good,
and then let's just go ahead
and export default MyApp, right away,
and then inside of here, we'll have a render,
where we need to grab the component from this.props.
And then from here, we return that container component
that we have imported from next,
and then inside of that, we can put something like
hey, I'm on every page, and then render out the ...
Oh, what am I doing here?
Const component from, how does JavaScript work?
Equals.
We destructure the component value from the stop props,
and then inside of here,
we render out the component that we have.
So, what this does, is a component is going to be
cell or index, when we visit the page,
and then it should also pop a paragraph tag
on top of every page that we have,
so I'll give it a refresh, doesn't seem to be working.
We maybe have to give it a restart.
Let's open up our terminal, here,
kill it, start it again, there we go.
Hey, I'm on every page, go to cell.
You can see that it's now being wrapped in every single one,
and if we are open up our React dev tools that we have here,
you'll see that's our app container,
this is our app component that we've created,
and then our container has hey, I'm on every page,
and then it will have the actual component
that we're trying to render.
In this case, it's home, but if I click on cell,
it'll swap just that component out, really quickly,
and still persisting everything else that we have, there,
and you can imagine that if we were
to put a Redux store, or our Apollo store,
or just local state, inside of my app,
that state would stay from one page to another.
Now we actually wanna take this paragraph,
Hey I'm on every page, we actually wanna take that out
because this app.js is actually not
where we wanna put that stuff.
We wanna factor that out into its own page component.
So what we're going to do here
is we're going to go into our components folder
and make a new file called capital P Page.js.
I'm going to import React and make a component, so rcc tab.
I have this little package called Reactjs code snippets
and so do half a million of you.
I highly recommend that you install it
because it can do things like rcc
and that will import React, import the component,
by the way it doesn't really matter,
it doesn't matter at all, if you import the component
like that or if you do React.component,
both will work just fine.
I'm gonna stick with this just
because that is what the snippet does.
And then it exports it all in one go.
That's totally fine, you can also export default
page at the end of it, whatever is your preference.
And inside of here, we are just going to have a <div>.
Let's just put a paragraph, Hey I'm the page component,
and then down here we'll say this.props.children,
and that will render out anything.
Now we'll go back to our app.js component
and we'll import the page component
from the components folder and the page component,
and then we'll wrap that in a page component.
Beautiful, now we'll go back here,
Hey I'm the page component.
When I go back and forth between all of them
you see that our page component is always
going to be wrapping each of them.
And that's great because if you ever want different layouts
you can create different page components that you want,
it's all, it can all be factored into its own component.
Now, inside of this page.js we're going to be doing things
like theming and styling the width
and the height of all these things,
but that's gonna come in a feature video.
For now we just need to know
that we have this page component.
Now inside of this page component,
we can start writing components for things
that need to show up on absolutely every page,
just like we have this paragraph tag.
So let's actually remove that
and let's make a header component.
So in our components folder we'll make a new file,
capital H header.js.
In that we'll say const header is equal to
a stateless functional component,
and inside of that we'll have a <div>,
inside of that we'll have a <div> with a class of bar.
This will all make sense in just a second
once we get into styling in the next video.
And then inside of that let's just have an anchor link,
sick fits, below that we'll have a <div>
with a class of sub bar, sub sub, sub bar.
And inside of that just a paragraph, just say search.
And then we'll have another <div> that says cart.
We'll go back and actually fill these out with what we want
but we just know that this is our header,
oh export default header.
Then we'll go back into our page component
and import the header from components header,
and then we can just stick that header in here.
See that we've got, regardless of what page we have,
it's showing up.
We'll probably also do that with a nav component.
Let's go into components, create a nav.js.
Nav is equal to a stateless functional component.
Just give yourself a <div>, we're gonna come
and swap these out with stock components in the next video
and let's just inside of there import link from next/link,
and inside of there let's give ourselves a link,
which actually let's just grab 'em from here.
We don't need them on each page now
because we're gonna have them in that.
So remove it from the index.js
and put it into your nav.
And remove it from your sell.js.
Put it in your nav.
Then we'll go into our header.js
and import the nav from the sibling file.
Again we don't need to directly import that
into page.js unless you wanted it to be a sibling of header.
You can just import it from header.js
and then go ahead and use it.
And right below the link we'll give ourselves a nav tag,
and oh got a little error.
This is one thing I really like about Next.js
and Create React app does this as well.
It gives you the errors directly inside of it
so you don't actually have to go rooting around
inside of here.
It says, "export default imported as nav was not found."
Back in our nav, oops!
Export default nav.
We forgot to export that thing.
There we go.
And obviously home, style home, style our nav
is on every single page that we need it.
So that's our nav, that's our header.
One other component that we're going to need
is called a meta, a meta component.
And that's going to take care of all of the meta tags
that you would normally see in an html document.
So, you're title tag, any external css
that you need to roll in,
any Facebook meta tags, Twitter meta tag, open graft,
all the things that you would normally
put in the head tag of an html document.
So we're going to go into components,
we're gonna capital m Meta.js
and up here we're going to import head from next/head.
Next.js does some tricky, tricky stuff behind the scenes
in order to actually update the head of it.
So we need to import their custom head
and that will do the side effect behind the scenes.
Say const Meta is equal to a stateless functional component.
You notice that we're using a lot of these
stateless functional components in this course
because a lot of the state and lifecycle methods
are going to be handled in some of the other
sort of high order components,
and we'll get much into that.
These ones are just display components.
Export default Meta,
and inside of that we'll put all of our Meta tags.
I'm just gonna go ahead and copy this,
feel free to grab this from the finished files Meta.js.
I'm gonna paste it in here.
So this is a view port.
This allows us to have responsive design.
This makes sure that we're using utf eight
because that's the character incoding that we're using.
This is for the fap icon that lives in the static directory.
If you open up static you're gonna see inside of here
we have our fap icon as well as some external css
that we're loading in.
I'll talk about that in just a second.
That's why we are loading it in here
and we are loading in nprogress.css.
That nprogress is that cool little red bar
that you see across the top here.
You probably see that on a lot of websites
that are built in React.
And then finally, you have a title tag,
which we are going to overwrite.
So you see here it says Sick Fits page one of two.
Right click through to this one.
It'll say nice 270s so this will be our default,
which says Sick Fits, and then anytime we wanna overwrite
that I'm going to show you how to do that
from within a component where you can sort of
reach outside and update the head as a side effect.
So you have that there.
Let's go back into our page.js and import the Meta.
Just above the header we're gonna give ourselves
our Meta component and that should,
see if we've got any errors.
Seems like it's working.
Give it a page refresh.
See that we've got, there we go,
see we've got our view port being pulled in,
our character set, fab icon is being pulled in,
you should see it showing up in your browser tab there.
So, that's just a whole bunch of boiler plate
that we need to sort of get out of the way
in order to start actually building our application.
In the next video we're going to dive into
writing some styles and scaffolding out the actual look
and feel of this application.